---
layout: post
title: "Men of the match"
permalink: /press-room/press-releases/men-match/
---
Soccer, the sports with the highest viewership in Singapore. Many got dark circles and eye bags while catching the games in the middle of the night. Some are placing soccer bets. The upcoming Euro 2012 tournament is a great chance to try your luck and determine if your favourite team can be the ultimate winner. But, before you place your bets, read on to find out if “Luck” and “Skill” are indeed the only determining factors… 

2\.         On 4 May 2012, two Korean Nationals and former professional football players were charged in court for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. 

3\.         The first accused, Kim Jae Hong (Kim), is a Korean National and a Professional Football Player. Kim played professional football in the Singapore S-League since 2008. He was with "Super Reds‟ and he played for a year before he went back to Korea. Kim joined a Korean Club for 6 months before he returned to Singapore to join Geylang United Football Club (GUFC) where he remained till end of 2011. 

4\.         CPIB had conducted an investigation which revealed that Kim had given a gratification of $4,000/- to one Mohamed Yazid Bin Mohd Yasin (Yazid), a professional football player with the GUFC, to fix the S-League football match between GUFC and Harimau Muda A Football Club (Harimau Muda) scheduled on 3 May 2012. Kim also gave another S$4,000/- to Yazid to be passed to another unknown football player of GUFC to fix the same match. 

5\.         The second accused, Jeon Byungeuk, (Jeon) is a Korean National and formerly a Professional Football player. Jeon played professional football in the Singapore S-League by being a central attacking midfielder in GUFC. He stopped playing in Singapore since December 2011. 

6\.         Investigations revealed that Jeon engaged in a conspiracy with Kim to offer a gratification to Mun Seung Man (Mun), a current striker with GUFC to fix the match as well. 

7\.         On 2 May 2012, Jeon met Mun and sought the latter's assistance to fix the match that was to be played between GUFC and Harimau Muda by refraining from scoring any goals in the game. Jeon promised Mun a gratification if the latter agreed to the deal. 

8\.         Kim Jae Hong was charged for two counts of corruptly giving gratification under Section 6(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Chapter 241; and one count of engaging with Jeon Byungeuk in a conspiracy to corruptly offering gratification, which is an offence under section 6(b) read with section 29(a) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Chapter 241. He was sentenced to 10 months imprisonment. 

9\.         Jeon Byungeuk was charged for one count of engaging with Kim Jae Hong in a conspiracy to corruptly offering gratification, which is an offence under section 6(b) read with section 29(a) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Chapter 241. He was sentenced to 5 months imprisonment. 

10\.       The respective charges are attached for reference. 

11\.       Singapore has always adopted a zero tolerance approach towards corruption. The Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (CPIB) takes a serious view of any corrupt practices in Singapore and will not hesitate to take action against any parties involved in corrupt practices. 

**Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau**
