---
layout: post
title: "Police Officer Charged for Corruption, Computer Misuse and Wrongful Communication of Information"
permalink: /press-room/press-releases/020921-police-officer/
---
On 2 September 2021, Sean Teo (“Teo”), a 25-year-old Singaporean male, will be charged in Court for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, the Computer Misuse Act and the Official Secrets Act.

2\. On 2 November 2019, Teo, a Police Sergeant at the material time, allegedly misused a SPF computer system to access without authority the data of individuals who were arrested in a Police operation. On 8 December 2019, Teo allegedly communicated (without authority) a photograph relating to the same Police operation to one female individual. Sometime thereafter in the same month, Teo allegedly solicited gratification in the form of a romantic relationship with the said female individual as an inducement for assisting in her case with the Central Narcotics Bureau. The individual rejected Teo’s request. For his actions, Teo faces the following charges:

* One charge for an offence punishable under Section 3(1) of the Computer Misuse Act;
* One charge for an offence under Section 5(1)(e)(i) punishable under Section 17(2) of the Official Secrets Act; and
* One charge for an offence punishable under section 5(a)(i) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.

3\. Singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and other criminal activities. CPIB will not hesitate to take firm action against offenders, including public officers who abuse their position of authority and tarnish the image of the Public Service. Any person who is convicted of a corruption offence under Section 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act can be fined up to S$100,000 or sentenced to imprisonment of up to 5 years or to both. Any person who is convicted of an offence under Section 3(1) of the Computer Misuse Act can be fined up to S$5,000 or sentenced to imprisonment of up to 2 years or to both. Any person who is convicted of an offence under Section 5 of the Official Secrets Act can be fined up to $2,000 and sentenced to imprisonment of up to 2 years. 

4\. CPIB looks into all corruption complaints and reports, including anonymous ones, and can be reached via the following channels:

a) Lodge an [e-Complaint](/e-services/e-complaint-for-corrupt-conduct);<br>
b) Email us at <a class="spamspan" href="mailto:report@cpib.gov.sg">report@cpib.gov.sg</a>;<br />
c) Call the Duty Officer at 1800-376-0000; or<br />
d) Write to us at the CPIB Headquarters @ 2 Lengkok Bahru, S159047.

5\.        Where possible, the report should include the following information:

a) Where, when and how the alleged corrupt act happened?<br />
b) Who was involved and what were their roles?<br />
c) What was the bribe given and the favour shown?

**Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau**
