---
layout: post
title: "Former SMRT Staff Charged For Alleged Corruption and Forgery Offences"
permalink: /press-room/press-releases/200821-former-smrt/
---

On 20 August 2021, Soh Choon Heng (“Soh”, 苏俊兴), a 43-year-old Singaporean male, will be charged in Court for allegedly committing corruption offences involving more than S$54,050 and forgery offences. Soh was an assistant buyer for SMRT Pte Ltd at the material time. Two individuals will also be charged in connection with his offences. They are:

a) Yong Ming Jun (“Yong”, 杨敏竣), a 38-year-old Singaporean male, Director of Euro Bremse Pte Ltd at the material time, and

b) Wong King Mooi (“Wong”, 汪金梅), a 46-year-old Malaysian female, Director of CEE Technologies Pte Ltd at the material time.

*Alleged corruption offences*

2\. Between 2016 to 2020, Soh had allegedly obtained gratifications, totalling at least S$24,450, from Yong as a reward for providing Yong with information of quotations made to SMRT by competitor vendors, so as to advance the business interest of Euro Bremse Pte Ltd with SMRT. For their actions, Soh and Yong each face 5 charges for offences punishable under Sections 6(a) and 6(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act respectively, which are amalgamated pursuant to Section 124(4) of the Criminal Procedure Code.

3\. Separately, Soh also allegedly obtained gratifications, totalling at least S$28,700, from Wong between 2017 and 2019, as a reward for providing Wong with information of quotations made to SMRT by competitor vendors, so as to advance the business interest of CEE Technologies Pte Ltd with SMRT. For their actions, Soh and Wong each face 3 charges for offences punishable under Sections 6(a) and 6(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act respectively, two of which are amalgamated pursuant to Section 124(4) of the Criminal Procedure Code.

4\. In addition, sometime in 2015, Soh had allegedly obtained gratification, totalling at least S$900, from another company director as a reward for providing the said director with information of quotations made to SMRT by competitor vendors, so as to advance the business interest of the company with SMRT. Consequently, Soh faces one charge for an offence punishable under Section 6(a) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which is amalgamated pursuant to Section 124(4) of the Criminal Procedure Code.

*Alleged forgery offences*

5\. In addition, it was alleged that in November 2017, Soh had fraudulently appended the signature of a SMRT Procurement Manager on two Letters of Agreement, with the intention of causing it to be believed that they were signed by the said SMRT Procurement Manager, when in fact they were not.

6\. Further, sometime in December 2017 and in May 2018, Soh allegedly also fraudulently appended the signature of SMRT’s Director of Procurement on two Supply Contracts, with the intention of causing it to be believed that they were signed by the said Director of Procurement, when in fact they were not.

7\. For committing the above forgery offences, Soh faces 4 charges for offences punishable under Section 465 of the Penal Code.

8\. Singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and other criminal activities. Any person who is convicted of a corruption offence can be fined up to S$100,000 or sentenced to imprisonment of up to 5 years or to both. Any person who is convicted of an offence under Section 465 of the Penal Code can be sentenced to imprisonment for a term which may extend to 4 years, or with fine, or with both.

9\. CPIB looks into all corruption complaints and reports, including anonymous ones, and can be reached via the following channels:

a) Lodge an [e-Complaint](/e-services/e-complaint-for-corrupt-conduct);<br>;
b) Email us at <a class="spamspan" href="mailto:report@cpib.gov.sg">report@cpib.gov.sg</a>;<br />
c) Call the Duty Officer at 1800-376-0000; or<br />
d) Write to us at the CPIB Headquarters @ 2 Lengkok Bahru, S159047.

10\.        Where possible, the report should include the following information:

a) Where, when and how the alleged corrupt act happened?<br />
b) Who was involved and what were their roles?<br />
c) What was the bribe given and the favour shown?

**Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau**
