---
title: ICA Officer Charged for Alleged Corruption Offences Involving Short Term
  Visit Pass Applications
permalink: /press-room/press-releases/141223-icaofficer/
date: 2023-12-14
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>On 14 December 2023, Kannan S/O Morice Rajagopal Jayaram (“Kannan”) (53-year old male Singaporean), an Inspector of the Immigration &amp; Checkpoints Authority (“ICA”) at the material time was charged in Court for allegedly committing corruption offences.</p><p>2. Sometime between 2022 and February 2023, Kannan allegedly obtained corrupt gratifications, i.e., sexual acts with six individuals. These gratifications were intended as an inducement to help these six individuals with their short-term visit pass applications with the ICA. For his alleged actions, Kannan faces six charges for offences punishable under Section 6(a) of the <em>Prevention of Corruption Act</em>.</p><p>3. Singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption. Any person who is convicted of a corruption offence under Section 6 of the <em>Prevention of Corruption Act</em> can be fined up to S$100,000 or sentenced to imprisonment of up to five years or both.</p><p>4. CPIB looks into all corruption-related complaints and reports, including anonymous ones, and can be reached via the following channels:</p><p>a) Lodge an <a href="https://www.cpib.gov.sg/e-services/e-complaint-for-corrupt-conduct/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">e-Complaint</a>; <br>b) Email us at <a href="mailto:report@cpib.gov.sg" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">report@cpib.gov.sg</a>;&nbsp;<br>c) Call the Duty Officer at <a href="tel:1800-376-0000" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">1800-376-0000</a>; or <br>d) Write to us at the CPIB Headquarters @ 2 Lengkok Bahru, S159047.</p><p>5. Where possible, the report should include the following information:</p><p>a) Where, when and how did the alleged corrupt act happen? <br>b) Who was involved and what were their roles? <br>c) What was the bribe given and the favour shown?</p><p><strong>Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau</strong></p>