---
title: Company Director and Another Individual Charged For Alleged Offences
permalink: /press-room/press-releases/291123-company-director-and-another-individual-charged/
date: 2023-11-29
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: markdown
---
On 29 November 2023, the following two individuals were charged in Court for offences under the *Employment of Foreign Manpower Act*:

a)    **Pek Choon Lee (“Pek”)** (白春利, 60-year-old male Singaporean), a Director of One World Business Advisory Pte Ltd (“One World”) at the material time; and,

b)    **Liu Liang (“Liu”)** (刘靓, 39-year-old male Chinese National).

2\. In the course of another investigation, the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (“CPIB”) came across information concerning Liu and Pek that warranted further investigation. CPIB’s investigations revealed that on 5 August 2019, Pek and Liu each allegedly made a false statement to the Controller of Work Passes (“the Controller”) in connection with an application for a work pass, specifically, by submitting Declaration Forms to the Controller stating that Liu would be employed by One World, which they knew was false. For their alleged acts, Pek and Liu each face one charge for an offence under Section 22(1)(d) punishable under Section 22(1)(ii) of the *Employment of Foreign Manpower Act*.

3\. It is further alleged that sometime in or about July 2021, Pek and Liu conspired to make a false statement to the Controller in connection with an application to renew Liu’s work pass. Pursuant to this conspiracy, Pek allegedly submitted a letter to the Controller stating that One World’s revenue had more than doubled since Liu joined in 2018 to 2020, which they knew was false. Sometime in or about August 2021, Pek and Liu allegedly conspired again for the same purpose, pursuant to which Pek submitted another letter to the Controller stating that One World’s revenue had more than doubled from 2018 to 2020 due to business generated by Liu, which they knew was false. For their alleged acts, Pek and Liu each face two charges for offences under Section 22(1)(d) read with Section 23(1) of the *Employment of Foreign Manpower Act*, which are punishable under Section 22(1)(ii) of the said Act.

4\. Any person convicted of an offence under Section 22(1)(d) of the *Employment of Foreign Manpower Act* may be fined up to S$20,000 or sentenced to imprisonment of up to two years or to both.

**Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau**