---
title: S Iswaran Charged for Corruption and Other Offences
permalink: /press-room/press-releases/180124siswaran/
date: 2024-01-18
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>In accordance with usual procedure, CPIB recorded Cautioned Statements from S Iswaran and informed him that he would be charged in the State Courts on 18 January 2024. Today, he was charged for the following offences: </p><p>a) 2 charges of corruption under section 6(a) read with section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. </p><p>i. The first charge alleges that in September 2022, Iswaran, as a Minister of the Government of Singapore, corruptly obtained from one Ong Beng Seng (王明 星) (“Ong”) gratification with a total value of about S$145,434, as inducement for advancing Ong’s business interests in matters relating to a contract between Singapore GP Pte Ltd and the Singapore Tourism Board. </p><p>ii. The second charge alleges that in December 2022, Iswaran, as a Minister of the Government of Singapore, corruptly obtained from Ong gratification with a total value of about S$20,848.03, as inducement for advancing Ong’s business interests in matters relating to a contract between Singapore GP Pte Ltd and the Singapore Tourism Board, and a proposal for a contract with the Singapore Tourism Board.</p><p>b) 24 charges of obtaining, as a public servant, valuable things with a total value of about S$218,058.95 from Ong for no consideration, punishable under section 165 of the Penal Code committed between November 2015 to December 2021. </p><p>c) 1 charge of obstructing the course of justice, which is an offence punishable under section 204A(a) of the Penal Code, committed on or about 25 May 2023. </p><p>2. Singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption. Any person who is convicted of a corruption offence under section 6 read with section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act can be fined up to $100,000 or sentenced to imprisonment of up to seven years or both. Any person who is convicted under section 165 of the Penal Code can be fined or sentenced to imprisonment of up to two years or both. Any person who is convicted under section 204A(a) of the Penal Code can be fined or sentenced to imprisonment of up to seven years or both.</p>